In the last lecture you have seen the first method of deleting the related models from a particular
model by subscribing to an event inside the model static boot method and handling this by just deleting
all the related models.
Now another way to do that is on the database level.
And for that we'll have to change the structure of the comments table.
So let's start by generating a new migration.
We can run P2P artisan make migration and the migration would be called up Cascade delete two comments
table.
Now this gets generated inside our migrations folder.
And thanks to the name I've given it we have already set up the bullet boiler plate that is already
allowing us to work on the comments table.
Now what we'll have to do is we will modify the foreign key that relates to the lock post I.D. on the
comments table.
So what you actually have to do is you will have to delete the foreign key first.
We can do that by relating to the table drop foraging method and instead of providing the actual foreign
key name which you might remember isn't actually called blog posts idea it has a different name.
Outer generated bi lateral but if you will instead and close it inside an array you can specify the
column name as block post I.D. and Lara a will know what's the name of the foreign key to be deleted.
Now we will just recreate this a key so it's stable flooring.
Blog post I.D..
So it will be us.
We did it before it references I.D..
On blog posts and now is that part that will be different.
So additionally we are adding a cascading operation so when this record would be deleted or the parent
would be deleted we want it to cascade.
So we'll do what this will do is whenever a blog post is deleted that the comments would be deleted
on the database level.
And it is all thanks to this foreign key definition.
Now we should also provide a way to roll back from this migration.
So let's copy what we have here inside the down meetup and what we will do again is will drop the following
key which in this case would have that cascading operation on delete and we'll just leave it without
it.
So we'll bring it back to the previous state.
Now let's run P2P artisan migrate
now let's go to our blog post model and comment out this part which subscribes to the deleting event
and deletes all the related comments
saved it changes and now let's see how our comments tables structure looks like.
So in the P2P my admin and probably in any of your database clients that you might use there is a way
to see how the structure changed.
So here we have this relation view and you can see that there is a foreign key constraint and it contains
dumped on delete.
It should cascade Additionally if you do not know that you can set this value to law.
So for example a comment would be without a blog post but in our case it of course doesn't make sense.
Now let's go back to our application and you can see that now even though we have disabled there events
subscriber so it doesn't subscribe to the deleting event and doesn't explicitly delete any comments.
It still works.
And that's because we have this foreign key constraint cascading and whenever a blog post is deleted
all the comments are deleted along it.
So you might use both methods.
This depends on how you'd like to do it but in the next lecture I will show you another way of deleting
elements deleting models and its relations called soft deletes.
So this won't actually remove models from the database but will just mark them as deleted so we can
late later revert them bring them back.
But this would be in the next lecture.